Statistics: To become a full-fledged data analyst, a thorough grounding in statistics is essential, being good at statistics will help you understand algorithms deeply and understand when they should be used. Brush up on applied statistics, linear algebra, real analysis, graph theory and numerical analysis. Linear algebra comes into play with regression, understanding data structures and prepare data for prescriptive and predictive data modelling.
Statistical languages: SAS vs R vs Python: It’s a question that needles most data nerds when it comes to picking up the analytical tool of choice. While SAS (has an expensive price tag) and Python (billed for low-scale data processing) are easy to learn, R (low level programming language) wins hands down thanks to its advanced computing capability, better graphical capabilities and advanced tools. Since R is open sourced, features and packages get added quickly as opposed to SAS. Another reason why R is thriving is it has a huge ecosystem backing it up that keep it up-to-speed with rich features.
SQL: One of the oldest querying language, SQL is a general-purpose database language which is used for analytical as well as transactional queries. SQL is mainly used in day-to-day operations and cannot support petabytes of data.
Hive: This Hadoop query language was invented by Facebook’s Data Infrastructure team. Right from the day that Hive was open sourced in 2008, it has become the popular choice for business analysts. The open source data warehousing solution that uses an SQL type language called HQL can support terabytes and petabytes of data as opposed to SQL. The downside is it only supports structured data.
PIG: One of the biggest advantages for Pig is that it can process both structured and unstructured data and works over MapReduce. It is the go-to language for most programmers who tend to write scripts.
MATLAB: It’s a language used for data mining. MATLAB has been around for a long, long time, invented in late ‘70s as a tool for data analysis.
Python: This is hands down one of the most popular scripting languages and its popularity stems from current stack – the core libraries NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, matplotlib, IPython. Perfect for modelling and analysis, it has one drawback though – scalability for large datasets.
You have all this data; now how do you bring it to life. Your job as a data analyst would be to make evocative reports, find trends and communicate these findings to the top brass. Data visualization tools to master are Tableau, Microsoft Power BI, Oracle Visual Analyser, SAS Visual Analytics. If you like R, you can use the ggplot package to create highly interactive charts and graphs.
Essentially, mathematics and statistics (32%), computer science (19%), and engineering (16%) are predominantly the most important fields of study for a data scientist. Data analysts are generally expected to be proficient with languages such as SAS, Python and/or R. It’s advisable for people with computer science as background to know Python, Hadoop, and SQL coding. Additionally, working with unstructured data is an integral part of the job, so it’s a good idea to be accustomed to unstructured databases. Moreover, a data scientist must imbibe qualities such as developing a business acumen or good communication/presentation skills, as these skills will help stay ahead of the game.
